#daily-note
#_0419_ 

Yesterday I saw a twitter post from the Gumroad founder advertising that Gumroad is hiring.

The interesting part is Gumroad's transparent and unique company culture. They are a distributed company of contractors that focus on getting stuff done. This is a breadth of fresh air after spending the past year in a big company full of meetings and bureaucracy.

This is the general gist of their pitch. Earn $100-125/hr as a Software engineer to work on Gumroad as a contractor. You track the hours you work, and can only work a max of 35 hours per week. No benefits since you are a contractor. Unlimited days off because you are a contractor (work when you want). Async communication, so no meetings. They do offer profit sharing so you can earn more than the 100-125/hr.

Their stack is Rails and React. And they prefer you have experience in shipping to production in both languages.

My initial reaction is, I think I am a decent fit for this role! I would love to work an additional 10-15 hours a week at $100 an hour to improve our cash flow and reduce stress. I should be able to balance this time with my current Compass work schedule so it doesn't feel like I'm working more. The product work and async nature of Gumroad sounds like a better culture fit for myself.

After reading [Gumroad's description](https://gumroad.notion.site/What-does-working-at-Gumroad-feel-like-7d9fd1c9548245a58afe5569d76a7960) of what working at Gumroad is like, I had two realizations. 
1. I will never fully understand the problem they are solving (creating maximum value for creators) without creating my own product on Gumroad. 
2. If I spend 10-15 hours a week creating my own products, I can earn more than the $100-125/hr from the Gumroad job.

The next action step for me is to spend 10-15 hours a week creating my own product and publishing it on Gumroad. This will be a way to test my work-life balance with the additional work, and if it fails I can use the experience to apply for a contractor role at Gumroad.

I have two ideas for my first digital products:
1. A framework for learning a new programming language
2. The Twitter algorithm break down

The framework for learning a new programming language makes the most sense to start with since it will be personally beneficial for me regardless if the product sells.

The Twitter algorithm idea can be broken down into two products where one is a technical view of how the algorithm works and the other is insights from understanding the technical details that can help non tech people understand how to efficiently use the algorithm to their benefit.