#daily-note
#_0409_ 

Happy Easter!

We are at Grandma and Grandpa's house and I had a little bit of time this morning while Brighton and Nathena are at church.

I studied the poker_ai poker engine today to try and understand how it is able to evaluate hands.

My favorite part about this repository are the comments to supplement the code. This includes a link to a [blog post](http://suffe.cool/poker/evaluator.html) describing the 5 card hand evaluator algorithm.

The algorithm uses bitwise operations to efficiently compute a hand rank. I am not comfortable with how much I do not understand these operations. I believe they can be a valuable tool for solving problems with code and have decided to enroll in an [Educative.io course](https://www.educative.io/courses/bit-manipulation) to understand them better.

I am going to write my own poker_ai bot, and will use this Python code as a way to evaluate my efforts.

In some areas I can make the code cleaner by not leaking as many implementation details across classes, and isolating when this needs to happen in a single spot.

I can also practice TDD which will result in a full test suite as the code is developed. The current implementation is lacking a full test suite.

Breaking down the problem, the first thing I think it makes sense to build is a poker engine. This means needing to build a hand evaluator. I will use the lookup table approach for the 7,462 distinct possible hand combinations described in the poker_ai code.

My goal is to look at the existing implementation as little as possible. If I break down the problem into English, I should not need to reference the existing code. I will be heavily influenced by the existing code since I am using it as my inspiration to understand the problem, but by not copying and pasting the existing implementation will be a better learning exercise.

One other revelation that I am slowly starting to accept is that a fundamental skill I need to develop is learning a new programming language quickly.

This idea is in my head because I realized that I should port my version of poker_ai into C or Rust to make it as fast as possible.

I believe the best way to accomplish this goal is to set up a system for learning programming languages.

The system should involve the following steps:

- Get familiar with the syntax
- Read detailed book or documentation on the programming language's internals
- Complete a common/generic set of problems using the programming language

To get familiar with the syntax, I think it makes sense to solve LeetCode style problems with it. My process for solving this kind of algorithmic challenges is to solve the problem in English first, which will allow me to Google "how to do x" (such as for loop) in the programming language I am learning. I can then get fast feedback on "how to do x" or what I should do instead of "x" for the given language by testing to see if my solution works. As an added bonus, I will be practicing for future interviews.

A detailed book or documentation for the programming language will depend on which language I am learning. In Ruby it was beneficial to read **The Well Grounded Rubyist.** I will want to find something equivalent for other languages.

For a common set of generic problems to solve for each programming language I can finally make use of a resource I bought years ago. [Exercises For Progammers](https://www.amazon.com/Exercises-Programmers-Challenges-Develop-Coding/dp/1680501224) has been sitting in my Kindle library for years, and the main thing that has stuck in my mind about this book is that the reason the author's wrote it was to have a consistent approach for learning a new programming language.

Ideally, I will be able to work through the three steps above in a month. Depending on how many algorithm problems I choose to solve and how many of the Exercises for Programmers I choose to solve, it could take two to three months to complete all of them.

I should create a curriculum with a list of algorithms and problems to solve to make it doable in a month, and a 2-3 month curriculum as well.