#daily-note
#_0331_

Today I Learned:

I walked through the code in [lookup.py](https://github.com/fdel15/poker_ai/blob/e955dc14afdbab0c017b12115f7f5f2c1a8751ef/poker_ai/poker/evaluation/lookup.py) in the poker_ai repository.

The purpose of this code is to generate a way to rank 5 card poker hands by mapping their unique prime product.

I was able to dust off some of my math knowledge relating to probabilities to understand how they came up with the figure that there are 7462 distinct hands in poker.

The [wikipedia article on poker probability](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poker_probability) was a big help to understand the difference between distinct hand values, frequency of hands, cumulative probability, and odds of making such a hand.

There are ${52 \choose 5} = 2,598,960$ possible 5 card hands in Poker.

In Texas Holdem, you have 7 cards to make the best hand which results in ${52 \choose 7} = 133,784,560$ possible hand combinations.

The most surprising thing to me is that in 5 card poker, your odds of making a royal flush are $649,739 : 1$ and your cumulative probability of having one pair or better is about 50%.

In Texas Holdem your odds of making a royal flush are $30,940 : 1$ and you will have one pair or better 82.6% of the time. This assumes you play your hand through the river so that you can use 7 cards to make your best 5 card hand.

When I look at it this way, it is clear to me why Texas Holdem is more popular than 5 card poker games. You will have a hand worth playing much more often which makes the game more fun. It also helps put in perspective how difficult it is to flop a made hand. On the flop you have a 5 card poker hand, and half the time you will not even have a pair.

Back to the code.

It is a clever algorithm that uses bitwise functions to rank unique values of each hand.

It represents a hand using a 13 bit integer. There are two ways to look at why they do it this way. 

Reading the comment in the code, it is because $\ {2} ^ {13}$ is > 7462, which is the number of distinct hands.

But to me, it made more sense when I analyzed how it represented the straight flushes.

```python
# straight flushes in rank order
straight_flushes = [
	7936,  # int('0b1111100000000', 2), # royal flush
	3968,  # int('0b111110000000', 2),
	1984,  # int('0b11111000000', 2),
	992,  # int('0b1111100000', 2),
	496,  # int('0b111110000', 2),
	248,  # int('0b11111000', 2),
	124,  # int('0b1111100', 2),
	62,  # int('0b111110', 2),
	31,  # int('0b11111', 2),
	4111,  # int('0b1000000001111', 2) # 5 high
]
```

The royal flush uses all 13 digits, `0b1111100000000`. 

The `0b` indicates that we are using a binary string. We then have each number representing a unique card, where a 1 indicates that the card exists, and the 0 indicates that it does not exist.

```
1111100000000

1 => Ace
1 => King
1 => Queen
1 => Jack
1 => 10
```

When you evaluate the binary number as an integer, you get the value 7936 which makes it the highest valued distinct hand.

Now lets look at another straight flush representation, `0b111110000`. The first thing to notice is that it is only 9 digits. This is because it is a lower value than the royal flush.

The right most digit represents a deuce, and the card values increase by one for each digit. This means that this binary value represents the following 10 high straight flush hand:

```
111110000

0 2s
0 3s
0 4s
0 5s
1 6
1 7
1 8
1 9
1 10

```

And lastly we can see that the 5 high straight flush, `0b1000000001111` includes an Ace for the wheel.

```
1000000001111

1 2
1 3
1 4
1 5
0 6s
0 7s
0 8s
0 9s
0 10s
0 Js
0 Qs
0 Ks
1 A
```

Once I wrapped my head around how it was representing distinct hand values, I tried to dig in a little bit deeper into how it was creating the look up table.

It divides the problem into two sub problems. Generating flushes (which includes royal flushes, straight flushes, normal flushes, straights, and high cards) and multiples (pairs, two pairs, 3 of a kind, full house, 4 of a kind).

It is kind of weird how they tack the straight and high card hand functions onto the end of the flushes function, but I will have to dig in deeper another day to understand why.

The bitwise operations are implemented in an algorithm borrowed from this [Standford code snippet paper](http://www-graphics.stanford.edu/~seander/bithacks.html#NextBitPermutation). I am very thankful that the engineer gave credit and a link to the Standford paper above because  it adds context to the script and makes it less confusing.

I wish I knew more about bitwise operations to fully understand what was happening in the code. I am motivated to take a Khan Academy course or something similar and just grind through as many bitwise problems as possible to master the symbols and develop an intuitive understanding on how and when to use this tool.

From my understanding, it is able to shuffle the 1s and 0s in a given bit integer to generate the next bit integer in a lexicographical fashion. Lexicographical is a fancy way of saying it is ordered. So in my layman terms, we are counting from low to high. But instead of counting by 1, we skip to the next number depending on the bitwise operations we perform.

Instead of generating a list of values, and then iterating over this list to perform operations and then finally store them in a memory object, the code takes advantage of the `yield` keyword in Python.

This [article](https://sentry.io/answers/python-yield-keyword/) was helpful for me to understand the how `yield` works.

`yield` can only be called from within a function.

It creates a generator object, called a generator. This object saves the current state of the function, and allows you to progress to the next state by calling a `next` function on the generator.

This prevents needing to store the lookup table twice in memory because it is able to generate a single value at a time, perform the operations it needs to save it in the lookup table, and then move on to the next generator.

The operations it performs are just ensuring that it is not a straight flush, and then adding it to a flush lookup dictionary.

I need to dig into the code more tomorrow, but in the end it will have a flush lookup table and an unsuited look up table. It makes sense to me why it broke the problem down into these categories, but I am not sure how it is going to use these look up tables when creating the poker engine.

